---
series: Lightpaper
articleType: note
showTime: false
showOutdatedWarning: false
created: 2022-07-01
updated: 2022-07-02
tags:
  - English
  - TURFU
---
_**Turfu** 
verlan of "Futur" contemporary french argot 
**Argot** is a language used by various groups to prevent outsiders from understanding their conversations* as an anti-language.
In his 1862 novel _Les Misérables,_ Victor Hugo refers to that argot as both "the language of the dark" and "the language of misery."

The concept of the **anti-language** was first defined and studied by the linguist Michael Halliday, who used the term to describe the lingua franca (is a language or dialect systematically used to make communication possible between groups of people who do not share a native language or dialect) of an anti-society. He defined an **anti-language** as a language created and used by an anti-society. An anti-society is a small, separate community intentionally created within a larger society as an alternative to or resistance of it.

_**Verlan**_ is a type of argot, featuring inversion of syllables in a word, and is common in slang and youth language. It rests on a long French tradition of transposing syllables of individual words to create slang words. The word _verlan_ itself is an example of verlan (making it an autological word). It is derived from inverting the sounds of the syllables in _l'envers_, "the inverse", frequently used in the sense of "back-to-front". 

TURFU has these 3 properties:
- Propose an alternative FUTUR
- As a resistance to the current (dystopic) FUTUR(es)
- Autological : expressessing a property that it also possesses, how to invert the FUTUR by creating alternative narrative that will impact the present in different ways (TURFU) thus, change the FUTUR.